---
layout:	"post"
categories:	"blog"
title:	"2018: We Dumb & The World Sucks Because Algocracy"
date:	2018-12-27
thumbnail:	/img/1*b3eo6he5KVPj7jou4IvkYQ.gif
author:	
---

* * *

It's the eve of 2019 and this is not the dystopia that I imagined for myself:
this was supposed to be the year when _Akira_ (1988) and _Blade Runner_ (1982)
became real. Those films envisioned a world where the digital became tangible
-- either through technical infusions of biology or vice versa as cybernetic
replicants. But the issues of the present moment are exacerbated online rather
than manifested as semi-organic material, beyond the screen. Even in those
movies, underground subversives promised hope, but our form of neoliberalism
and capitalism consumes the smallest growth of resistance.

Algorithms have visceral real-life implications, but are mostly an invisible
hand of destructive greed. Of course, IRL is everywhere, even online, but it's
sad to me that there are no actors or weightedness to this crumbling present
world we live in: lawmakers still don't get Cambridge Analytica. This
untethered feeling of technological collapse buries within us, like that
stomach-sinking feeling of guilt, but in our minds. We deserve climate change
so at least we know something is awry around us.

![](/img/1*b3eo6he5KVPj7jou4IvkYQ.gif)

![](/img/1*DtqJD5JO0CQWG9ipkPpNkA.gif)

Culture sucks. Not only what it is but the vampiric cycles it creates. We
dissect and create new vocabulary for it, in the attempt of containing the
trash fire that it is, but it then just burns brighter in different hues that
we are even more entranced by. Content used to mean substance but now it's
just media trying to coat the inner walls of hollowed-out branches as micro-
genres. We're at [peak virtualization of
authenticity](https://subpixel.space/entries/after-authenticity/) as
influencers are [faking branded
content](https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2018/12/influencers-
are-faking-brand-deals/578401/). Instead of fashioning the best Instagram
caption, let's actually work at Netflix or Spotify or any place that creates
AND pays. Is it really time for another remake of a remake? I hate the 90s. I
will actually wait for this clip to end so something will end. It's
intentionally sad how hard Spotify wants to subdue everyone with too many of
its [Chill Playlists](https://thebaffler.com/downstream/streambait-pop-pelly).
Just send me my Year-In-Review because data mining is cool, if it's useful to
me, right?

![](/img/1*AgVw1pLd2ZQjftTDV3nYhg.png)

I'm sick of podcasts about politics. Democracy is the voice of an echo
chamber. I'm looking for some light, maybe the false pretense of a digital
prophet. Will the solution to technology be technology? Sounds
counterintuitive, but also that just might be the Baby Boomers whispering in
our ears. How about the next generation, "Gen Z"? Was our generation the
casualty, where we thought we were so special to see the flicker of the
Internet turn on? Maybe it blinded us, and the kids have adjusted well enough
that they can differentiate the serotonin changes influenced by likes and
loves. [54 percent of Chinese born after 1995 chose "influencer" as their most
desired occupation](https://jingdaily.com/china-influencer-fatigue/). It's
nice that protest has become more mainstream, so that those hashtags can
become viral. Hack me with that viral worm and then let me vote via an
Instagram poll sticker. Don't send me another meme that is about how people
relate to each other via network effect.

![](/img/1*7flcp-hQaqQrGLVfKDrgOQ.png)

Am I concerned about
[deepfakes](https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/davidmack/obama-fake-news-
jordan-peele-psa-video-buzzfeed)? Worried about that the already cheapened
image of real (fake?) people will be jeopardized as we become able to puppet
them to do anything we want? Isn't that what acting is? As always,
[pornstars](https://twitter.com/rejaniced/status/1032411824610664450) were the
first ones to see that one coming. Most of the [entire Internet is
fake](http://nymag.com/intelligencer/2018/12/how-much-of-the-internet-is-
fake.html), anyway. We copyright intellectual property and people are
corporations. I want to 3D print an Ariana Grande. Machine learning in general
is a sham: we feed millions of our leftover interactions in the world, like
the faces we give to our locked phones, to a dumb algo to recreate reality --
it's a 7-year-old child that cannibalizes itself in order to show us something
new because we want the same newness. Frankenstein is now available as
decentralized terabytes of clustered data. This personalized filter bubble of
[oil](https://medium.com/project-2030/data-is-the-new-oil-a-ludicrous-
proposition-1d91bba4f294) still tastes crude and gross.

![](/img/1*w4uhqlc9hgf7KBME6D7cPw.gif)

Where is the light? It's definitely not in New York or LA. Should I move to
Austin because Apple, or Queens because Amazon? There are so many end-of-year
lists because every year is literally the worst. Is relevance even relevant-
adjacent anymore? Airbnb didn't own homes, but I guess we could move into [one
of their apartment
complexes](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-08-14/airbnb-and-
niido-to-open-as-many-as-14-home-sharing-apartment-complexes-by-2020). Just
find me a place where I can get my Amazon boxes and [premium
mediocre](https://www.ribbonfarm.com/2017/08/17/the-premium-mediocre-life-of-
maya-millennial/) subscription products delivered in peace.

Someone please buy this insightful bullshit so I have to stop disguising
myself as the voice of a generation for corporate America.

